1)
Create a command which allows players to leave their cult without
needing to join another. There will be a penalty equal to the penalty
associated with changing cults.
Example Command: Forsake Religion

2)
Expand 'Consecrate' spell so that when it is cast by a player who belongs
to no cult, he is given the option to attempt a consecration of that altar to himself.

(attempt apotheosis?: y/n)

(Chance of successful attempt could be based on the quantity of maxed base statistics
a character has as well, an active Grace effect as extremely high grace, chance from 1%-60%,  Failure destroys alter)

This has the effect of generating a 'Cult of <PLAYER NAME>' and turning that altar
into the first altar for that religion.

(alter of <PLAYER NAME>)

Before the player(you)is able to step off the altar being consecrated, you are prompted
with a series of options related to the specific buffs of your cult:
You are prompted to select two general stats and either four resistance stats
OR three resisances and one special to be the buffs related to your new cult.

(select your base cult attribute: <BASE STATS>) X appropriate number
(select your cult resistances: <LIST OF ENERGY TYPES) X appropriate number

After making this selection you are free to step off your new altar.
Consecration of blank altars by you or members of your cult will result in creating more
altars associated with your cult.

As a demigod, your general stat cap will increase to 60 and special stats will become uncapped.
You will recieve a percentage buff to the stats you selected which is calculated from your natural
statistic + a percentage determined by the average level of followers you are able to attract 
to your cult.

Avg Lvl: 0-1  =  -1% buff
	2-5 =   2% buff
	5-10 =  5%
	10-20 = 10%
	20-30 = 15%
	30-40 = 25
	40-50 = 30
	50-60 = 35%
	60-70 = 40%
	70-80 = 45%
	80-90 = 50% 
	90-100 = 55%
	100-115 = 60%
	CAP UNTIL TESTING SUGGESTS OTHERWISE

Followers will recieve a buff to stats selected during cult generation that is calculated
as 10% of those stats on the demigod player and limited by standard PC caps. This value is expected
to increase or decrease with the Demigod players activity.
Statistic modifications demi-god players recieve from gear is considered during this process.
Cult members are expected to recieve feedback as their buffs increase or decrease.


NOTE: Demigod player can speak through their altars as if the 'talk' command is being used as a new communication command.

-------------------------------------------------------------------

Cult Spells:

At any time a Demigod player is able to cast a spell or prayer over one of their own altar,
this will prompt the game to ask if the would like that spell/prayer to be the prayer
available to suffiently powerful cult members.

(upon spell cast; make this power available to your followers? y/n, grace determines success,
failure destroys altar)

Perhaps a relationship between the casting level of the demigod to the grace requirement?
Demigods may use this process to change their cults spell as many times as they would like.

-------------------------------------------------------------------

Cult Items:

At any time a Demigod player is able to bring an artifact to one of their altars and place it
on the altar. Demigod casts 'Consecrate' which triggers a secondary effect having been cast by
the demigod onto his own consecrated altar.

Item is destroyed and immediately made available as god-given, cult item.
Perhaps a relationship between the item power level and grace level required to recieve the item to
a cap available to high level, non-demigod prayer users?
Demigod may use this process to change their cult item as many times as they would like.

------------------------------------------------------------------

Hardcore Mode + DemiGod:

Demigod mode WILL COME WITH hardcore mode.
 This means that demigod player will drop a corpse upon their death and their cult enters a
temporary suspension (no new members, cult buffs suspended, all cult items vaporized, all cult spells
deactivated until the corpse can be raised.)
Character will be located in a Black Map of Permadeath they cannot teleport from until raise dead is applied.

NOTE:
Dead players in Black Map of Permadeath cannot communicate in global, instead their voice will come through their altar
as if the 'talk' command is being used.

Dead players who have their mantle eusurped while in the Black Map of Permadeath or as a Shade are'reborn' and recieve a Reincarnation.

If corpse is reincarnated, new PC will assume the position held by their precursor 
but will begin as a new Demigod-PC (new race, lvl 1)
Cult activity will return to normal for all members except that 
the buffs they recieved before reincarnated will be decreased in proportion to the new demigod PC. 
If corpse is simply raise_dead, cult activity returns as normal.

-----------------------------------------

Shade/ Shade Token:

A player who has become permadeath is given 3 Shade Tokens. More can be bought in game shops or found in dungeons.
This token can be used in the Black Map of Permadeath to become an intangible shade and appear in this form at your save bed.
Your shade form will appear to other players as a 'ghost' arch with the name Spectre of XXXX (XXXX is player name).

Shade form allows you to explore the world to repossess your corpse without needing to be raise_dead. When in shade form, player recieves a small amount of
damage with every step.
In order to apply or pickup anything as well as heal, Shade_Player must possess a monster. Monster recieve a poison effect as long as it is being possessed. Upon Possession, if
Shade_Player has any damage to his spectre form, half of Monster's life is sacrificed and Spade_Player is fully healed until no longer possessing anything.

Shade could theoretically live in a possessed monster indefinitely through the use of healing tools. 
(Monster does not level up but can wear new gear).
(Shade can access his own apartments and other private areas while possessing a Monster).

Shade CAN pass through walls but CAN ALSO be targetted by anything which can see_invis. Damage types: Holy power, Cancellation, Turn Undead, God Power,
Ghost hit.

If Shade_Player is killed, Shade_Player will appear in Black Map of Permadeath again and may attempt to use another token or pursue a Raise_Dead.

-----------------------------------------

Player_Corpse Properties:

Item's that are not 'applied' (gear, bags) are lootable in corpse-container.
Corpse cannot be destroyed or disappear from map-reset.
Corpse CAN be picked up. (cannot be raise_dead inside a player inventory)
Player who has raise_dead applied will appear at location of Corpse unless reincarnate, then they will be 'reborn' and go through tutorial.

------------------------------------------------------------------

Assume Mantle:

Explorer players who find a demigod corpse, may carry corpse to that religion altar and attempt consecration.
Assuming a mantle using the corpse of a dead demigod offers a 12% bonus chance of success.
If success, will have option to 'Assume Mantle' of this religion. "Assume Mantle? Y/N"
Existing members of cult will recieve a message "You religion once again has a God! You feel devine power flow down to you from above once again"
(If logged out, the message will be there for them when they sign in)
Bonuses are reevaluated to reflect the new deity.
"Change Cult Name? Y/N"   If N Cult name remains the same, if Y, Cult name is changed to reflect the new Deity-Character name.

