Magical Runes

  Runes are magical inscriptions on the dungeon floor,
which cast a spell or detonate when something steps on them.  Flying
objects don't detonate runes.  Beware!  Runes are invisible
most of the time.  They are only visible occasionally!

  There are several runes which are specialized:  these can be set as
your range spell.  Some of these are:

  Rune of Fire		--		does ??hp of fire damage
					when it detonates
  Rune of Frost		--		??hp cold
  Rune of Blasting	--		??hp physical
  Rune of Shocking	--		??hp electric
  Rune of Death		--		AT_DEATH at caster level

  + some others you may discover spellbooks of.

  The spell 'disarm' may be used to try and destroy a rune you've
discovered.

  In addition, there are some special runes which may only be called
with the 'invoke' command:

  Magic Rune		--		You may store any magic spell
					in this rune that you know and
					have the spellpoints to cast.

  Marking Rune		--		this is basically a sign.  You
					may store any words you like in
					this rune, and people may apply
					it to read it.  Maybe useful for
					mazes!  This rune will not detonate,
					nor is it ordinarily invisible.

Partial Visibility of Runes:
  Your runes will be partially invisible.  That is, they'll be visible
only part of the time.  They have a 1/(your level/2) chance of being
visible in any given round, so the higher your level, the better hidden
the runes you make are.

Examples of usage:

'invoke magic rune heal
  -- will place a magic rune of healing one square ahead of you, whichever
     way you're facing.

'invoke magic rune transfer
  -- as above, except the rune will contain the spell of transferrence

'invoke magic rune large fireball
  -- as above, except the spell large fireball will be cast when someone
     steps on the rune.  the fireball will fly in the direction the caster
     was facing when he created the rune.

'cast rune of fire
  --  prepares the rune of fire as the range spell.  Use the direction
      keys to use up your spellpoints and place a rune.

'invoke marking rune fubar
  --  places a rune of marking, which says "fubar" when someone
      applies it.

'invoke marking rune touch my stuff and I will hunt you down and kill you
  --  places the marking rune warning would-be thieves of their danger



Restrictions on runes:

  You may not place runes underneath monsters or other players.  You
may not place a new rune on a square which already has a rune.  Any
attempt to do the latter strengthens the pre-existing rune.
